# ui5con17-components-performance

Initial project to explain the boostrap and component performance optimization options for UI5 Components step-by-step. 
The slides explaining the individual steps and providing some background information can be found here on 
[slideshare](https://de.slideshare.net/PeterMuessig1/ui5con-2017-ui5-components-more-performance)

## Getting Started

* Subscribe for a hanatrial account for usage of SAP Web IDE: https://hanatrial.ondemand.com or use your existing account for SAP Web IDE
* Initial project can be found on GitHub and should be synced into SAP Web IDE workspace: https://github.com/petermuessig/ui5con17-components-performance 
* In addition to the initial project a destination for the Northwind service has to be created. Details for that are explained in one of the next slides

## How to run the application?

For local execution outside the SAP Web IDE you can also use the standalone express server. Please run ```npm i``` once and then you can start the express server on port 3000 with the command ```npm start```. The application can be run with ```http://localhost:3000```. If you want to disable the component preload temporary please add the URL parameter ```sap-ui-xx-componentPreload=off```.

## How to build the application?

For the local scenario we are currently using Grunt to generate the Component preload. To build the preload run the command ```npm run build```. After the build you can find the resources in the dist folder. Please restart the local server once the Component prelaod has been built to ensure that the dist folder is used to serve the static resources from.

The Component preload generated by the Grunt build includes also the manifest and the i18n resources which again reduces the amount of requests.